title: What do I do now?
date: 2016-04-14 01:38
author: Arnav Dhamija
tags: Rants, College, Life
category: Article
slug: what-do-i-do-now

I spend a lot of time thinking since I've joined college.  

I had postponed a lot of introspection during the two years I spent slogging
away for the JEE. But now, with ample free time and practically no requirement
to go to classes, I've finally got some time to look back and see how things
have turned out. Things started off on the back foot, and while 1-1 had its
charms, I wasn't exactly happy about how things had turned out at the time due
to a bad time with the [entrance exams]({filename}/2015-06-17-t2-years-and-counting-iit-jee.md#entrancexams) for all the
[wrong]({filename}/2015-06-17-t2-years-and-counting-iit-jee.md#bitsat) [reasons]({filename}/2015-06-17-t2-years-and-counting-iit-jee.md#screwup0).  

But I digress, as time has passed, I have learned to live with my failure a
little better every day, though it still sticks out like a sore thumb on an
otherwise decent academic profile. What has turned out to be an interesting
exercise is to compare what I expected from college a year ago and reality.  

To be fair, BITS Pilani (this applies to all campuses, but in this case,
Hyderabad Campus) has some of best internal systems among _all_ Indian
colleges. Optional attendance, good grading system, decent infrastructure, and
a lot of freedom is more than what can be asked for a lot of other colleges.
Despite some glaring flaws such as a lack of a solid technical culture, this
college has punched above its weight for such a new institution.  

But as an engineering utopia? I feel like we are way short of the mark [Aaron](http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/technology/2013/02/aaron_swartz_he_wanted_to_save_the_world_why_couldn_t_he_save_himself.html) [Swartz](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9vz06QO3UkQ&nohtml5=False) mentioned
in his [blog](http://www.aaronsw.com/weblog/visitingmit):  

_"Perhaps itâ€™s natural, when doing something so greedy and practical as a
startup, to pine for the idealized world of academia. Its image as a place in
an idyllic location filled with smart people has always been attractive; even
more so with the sense that by being there one can get smarter simply through
osmosis. People describe a place of continual geekiness, of throwing chemicals
into the river and building robots in free time. A magical place for hackers
to just enjoy themselves."_  

This aside, I am of the opinion that the version of me a year ago would have
been sorely disappointed by the version of me today. I feel that I was _much_
more hardworking and efficient back at that time. The two years in JEE
preparation were undoubtedly the worst years of my school life but now looking
back, it was the time which did bring out the best of me in the briefest of
moments. I would have had no idea just how driven and hard-working I could be
for a goal that would always be just a touch out of view.  

Despite my frustrations with life during JEE preparation, the epiphanies I
used to have on weekly basis with studying physics during JEE kept me going.
It was a positive feedback loop with no goading required. On the other hand I
can't remember the last time I actually enjoyed learning something in class in
this college. I hope it isn't a sign of things to come when I start
"engineering" coursework in my 2nd year but I have pretty much lost all
motivation to study.  The unbridled enthusiasm I used to have when studying
for entrance exams and the giddy thoughts of making batshit crazy projects in
college has dwindled. In my first semester, it was a convenient excuse to
blame this on burnout after pushing my limits for two years but I've come to
realize that the reason is probably shallower than that. It's not just with
academics though - wasting time _still_ feels painful but I have nothing I
want to do to fill in the gaps. Is there a cause for this? Probably. Have I
figured it out? Absolutely not.  

It feels like an artificial conflict of time between these misguided academic
pursuits and to actually work on something worthwhile. I could put up with
it in school with the thought that there would be enough free time to pursue
this in college - and while there is - it begs the question why such
artificial restraints on time in the form of exams are always looming in the
first place.  

At this point of time, I don't know what to do. With compre in half a month
but a [GSoC project](https://goo.gl/BYOWdG) and a couple other projects I've
planned in the pipeline, it's a pretty easy decision to make the choice of
which one of these two things I would want to work on. For a CGPA for which I
cannot care for anymore, it might be one of the worst decisions I can make.
