---
layout: post
title: It has happened - GSoC 2016 Selection!
date: '2016-04-23T12:28:00.000+05:30'
author: Arnav Dhamija
tags:
- GSoC
- KDE
modified_time: '2016-05-03T16:23:10.511+05:30'
thumbnail: https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-edxDvR1ymSg/Vxsc7I8jpmI/AAAAAAAAAms/1g49gAPyqr8HZCodRl-o-E5yKvI9-l1IwCLcB/s72-c/photo_2016-04-23_12-26-30.jpg
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8556896234209226518.post-3793523904118270701
blogger_orig_url: http://arnavdhamija.blogspot.com/2016/04/it-has-happened.html
---

Wow!  


![]({{ site.url }}/assets/photo_2016-04-23_12-26-30.jpg)



I have been selected for the Google Summer of Code!  

For the better part of the summer vacation, I will now be committing myself to
write code for [KDE](https://www.kde.org/) to implement my project idea of
implementing a [virtual folder in Dolphin](https://goo.gl/BYOWdG) to make it
easier to select files.  

As a primer, the [Google Summer of Code ](http://g.co/gsoc)(GSoC) is an annual
event organized by Google for drawing students to work on open source projects
with a nice stipend, goodies, and fame. The GSoC is a term one would hear
pretty frequently when talking about the technical prowess and coding culture
of a college.  

This year, BITS Pilani - Hyderabad Campus had a record number of a total of
**7** selections! This is more than double of our previous record. This in
some ways, might be the start of the technical culture wave this campus was
looking for so long.  

The File Tray idea for the GSoC came at a difficult time, hardly a month after
the entrance exams in 2015. It was at a time I was frustrated with everything
I had done and I didn't have any energy to pursue anything at all having been
completely drained out by the entrance exams prior to it. From there, the
project sat on the list of "Things I Might Do In The Distant Future". The
project idea was known only to a few close friends and my tiny programming
diary.  

It was only till November 2015 when I stumbled across the GSoC. I began
looking at open source file managers for which I could implement my project
idea. I had been using Linux with various desktop environments for about 4
years at that point, so I had a pretty decent idea of what to look for.
Writing this feature for GNOME's Nautilus was the first thing I looked into as
I had been using Nautilus for a while and I was a big fan of Nautilus's simple
to use interface. But, the problem was that Nautilus was a C/GTK+ project and
I had no desire to move on to using C after having C++ in my comfort zone for
a very long time. Fortunately, Dolphin, one of the best file managers I had
used since my days of using KDE, used C++/Qt, a toolset I am much better with.
I felt my project idea was a natural fit for Dolphin's Split view mode. KDE
also had an excellent record in the GSoC with a very good number of slots and
a high percentage of successful projects. This began my tryst with Open Source
development.  

From there on, I taught myself [Qt](http://www.qt.io/) and during a Diwali
vacation on campus, I managed to make a very rough [prototype
application](https://github.com/shortstheory/filetray-very-early-alpha-idea-
thingy) of my project after coding for 6 hours straight from 11pm to 5am the
next day. Following this, I subscribed to KDE's mailing lists and after
lurking around for a while, I started asking for feedback on my GSoC idea.
With surprisingly positive feedback from numerous KDE developers, I realized
that there might just be a non-zero chance of getting selected.  

Things quickly began falling into place and I then moved on to the next step
of hunting around for bugs I could fix and new features I could implement for
Dolphin. The bug-fixing was as enjoyable as it was occasionally frustrating.
Reading over 20000 lines of code certainly took its toll when I had no idea
when how different parts of the application meshed together. In the end,
thanks to the guidance of Dolphin maintainer, Emmanuel Pescosta, I managed to
fix a couple of things for Dolphin and moved on to the next step of making a
proposal for my GSoC application.  

Starting off with making a competent proposal was like launching off ground
zero as there were very few people who had successfully completed the GSoC
from our campus and most of these people had graduated well before this time.
I started digging around for proposals accepted by KDE in previous GSoC's.
What I couldn't get from all the proposals was some sound advice from seniors.
In particular, [Naveen Jafer bhaiya](https://github.com/naveenjafer) (who also
went on to achieve a GSoC project of his own!) helped me with making my
proposal as good as possible. In the end, after painstakingly checking every
word in my proposal for what felt like the fiftieth time I submitted it on 25
March, only to spend an anxious month waiting for the results which came out
at 1230am IST on April 23. While it still hasn't sunk in yet (!), I am sure
that this will make for an awesome summer vacation!
