title: Akademy 2017
date: 2017-08-16 20:00
author: Arnav Dhamija
tags: KDE, Life
category: Article
slug: akademy-2017
status: draft

Last month, I attended Akademy 2017, KDE's annual conference. It was held in Almeria, a small Andalusian city on the south-east coast of Spain.

My head is still spinning from the trip.

Akademy 2017 was a collection of amazing, life-changing experiences. It was my first solo trip abroad and it taught me so much about travel, KDE, and getting around a city with only a handful of broken phrases in the local language. It was a rush to see faceless names on KDE mailing lists and IRC channels in the flesh.

## Travel

My trip began from the recently renamed Kempegowda International Airport, Bangalore. Though the airport is small for an international airport, the small size of the airport makes it very easy to get around. Check-in and immigration was a breeze and I had a couple of hours to check out the loyalty card lounge, where I sipped soda water thinking about what the next seven days had in store.

The first leg of my trip was on a Etihad A320 to Abu Dhabi, a four hour flight departing at 2210 on 20 July. The A320 isn't particularly unique equipment, but then again, it was a rather short leg. The crew onboard that flight seemed to be a mix of Asian and European staff.

Economy class in Etihad was *much* better than any other Economy class product I've seen before. Ample legroom, very clean and comfortable seats, and an excellent IFE system. I was content looking at the HUD-style map visualisation which showed the AoA, vertical speed, and airspeed of the airplane.

On the way, I scribbled a quick diary entry and started reading part 1 of Sanderson's Stormlight Archive - 'The Way of Kings'.

Descent to Abu Dhabi airport started about 3:30 into the flight. Amber city lights illuminated the desert night sky. Even though it was past midnight, the plane's IFE reported an outside temperature of 35C. Disembarking from the plane, the muggy atmosphere hit me after spending four hours in an air-conditioned composite tube.

The airport was dominated by Etihad aircraft - mainly Airbus A330s, Boeing 787-8s, and Boeing 777-300ERs. There were also a number of other airlines part of the Etihad Airways Partners Alliance such as Alitalia, Jet Airways, and some Air Berlin equipment. As it was a relatively tight connection, I didn't stop to admire the birds for too long. I traversed a long terminal to reach the boarding gate for the connecting flight to Madrid.

The flight to Madrid was another Etihad operated flight, only this time on the A320's larger brethren - the A330-200. This plane was markedly older than the A320 on the first leg of the trip. Fortunately, I got the port side window seat in a 2-5-2 configuration. The plane had a long take-off roll and took off a few minutes after 2am. Once we reached cruising altitude, I opened the window shade. The sky was remarkably clear and full of stars and I must have spent at least five minutes with my face glued to the window.

I tried to sleep, preparing myself for the long day ahead. Soon after waking up, the plane landed at Madrid Barajas Airport and taxied for nearly *half-an-hour* to reach the terminal. After clearing immigration, I picked up my suitcase and waited for a bus which would take me to my next stop - the Madrid Atocha Railway Station. Located in the heart of city, the Atocha station is one of Madrid's largest train stations and connects it to the rest of Spain. My train to Almeria was later that day - at 3:15 in the afternoon.

On reaching Atocha, I got my first good look at Madrid.

I was struck by how orderly everything was, starting with the traffic. Cars gave the right of way to pedestrians. People walked on zebra crossings and cyclists stuck to the defined cycling lanes. A trivial detail, but it was a world apart from Bangalore. The cultural history which Madrid is known for shown right through with the Baroque and Gothic architecture opposite the station.

Having a few hours to kill before I had to catch my train, I roamed around Buen Retiro Park, one of Spain's largest public parks. It was a beautiful day, bright and sunny with the warmth balanced out by a light breeze.

Struggling with a heavy suitcase, my mobility was limited, so I tried to take in as much as I could sitting down every few minutes. The Park is a popular stomping ground for joggers, skaters, and cyclists alike. Despite it being 11am on a weekday, I saw plenty of people jogging though the park. After this, I trudged through some quaint cobbled neighborhoods with narrow roads and old apartment buildings, dotted with small shops on the ground floor.

Maybe it was the sleep-deprivation or dehydration after a long flight, but everything felt so surreal! I had to pinch myself a few times - to believe that I had come thousands of miles from home and was actually travelling on my own in a foreign land.

After feeling completely spent of energy, I returned to Atocha and waited for my train. By this time, I came to realise that language was going to be a problem for this trip as very few people spoke English and my Spanish was limited to a few basic phrases - notably 'No hables Espanol' and 'Buenos Dias' :P Nevertheless, the kind folks at the station helped me find the train platform.

Trains in Spain are operated by state-owned train companies. In my case, I would be travelling on a Renfe train going till Almeria. The coaches are arranged in a 2-2 seating configuration, quite similar to those in airplanes, albeit with more legroom and charging ports. The speed of these trains is comparable to fast trains in India, with a top speed of about 160km/hr. The 700km journey was scheduled to take about 7 hours. There was plenty of scenery on the way with sloping mountain ranges and deserted valleys.

Right after seven hours, I reached the Almeria railway station at 10pm. According to Google Maps, the hostel which KDE had booked for all the attendees was only 800m away - well within walking distance. However, unbeknownst to me, I started walking in the opposite direction (my Android phone doesn't have a compass!). This kept increasing the Google Maps ETA and only when I was 2km off track I realised something was very wrong. Fortunately, I managed to get a taxi to take me to Residencia Civitas - a university hostel where all the Akademy attendees would be staying for the week.

After checking in to Civitas, I made my way to the double room. Judging from the baggage and the shoes in the corner, someone had moved in here before I did. About half an hour later, I found out who - Rahul Yadav, a fourth year student at DTU, Delhi. Exhausted after an eventful day of travel, I switched off the lights and went to sleep.

## The Conference

The next day, I got to catch up with all the Akademy attendees over breakfast at Civitas. In all, there were about 60-70 attendees, which I was told was slightly smaller than previous years. After breakfast,

The conference was held at University of Almería, located a few kilometers from the hostel. KDE had hired a public bus for transport to and from the hostel for all the days of the conference. The University was a stone's throw from the Andalusian coastline. After being seated in one of the larger lecture halls, Akademy 2017 was underway.

The keynote talk was by Robert Kayne of Metabrainz, about the story of how MusicBrainz was formed out of the ashes of CDDB. The talk set the tone for the first day of Akademy.

The Coffee Break after the first two talks was much needed. I was grappling with sleep deprivation and jet lag from the last two days and needed all the caffiene and sugar I could get to keep myself going for the rest of the day. Over coffee, I caught up with some KDE developers I met up at QtCon.

Throughout the day, there were a lot of good talks, notably 'A bit on functional programming', and five quick lightning talks on a variety of topics. Soon after this, it was time for my very own talk - ['An Introduction to the KIO Library'](https://conf.kde.org/en/akademy2017/public/events/337). The KIO Library is a neat abstraction used by many applications. It allows applications to access data from a wide variety of local and network protocols without having to implement special code to handle the aforementioned protocol. This makes it easy to add file management capabilities in KDE applications and the API is used extensively in Dolphin.

The audience for my talk consisted of developers with several times my experience. Much to my delight, the *maintainer* of the KIO Library, David Faure was in the audience as well! Here's where I learned another thing about giving presentations - they never quite go as well as it seems to go when rehearsed alone. I ended up speaking faster than I planned to, leaving more than enough time for a QA round. Just as I was wary about, I was asked some questions about the low-level implementation of KIO which thankfully David fielded for me. I was perspiring after the presentation, and it wasn't the temperature which was the problem 😅 A thumbs up from David afterwards gave me some confidence that I had done alright.

Following this, I enjoyed David Edmundson's talk about Binding properties in QML. The next presentation I attended after this is where things ended up getting heated. Paul Brown deconstructed everything wrong with [Kirigami's TechBase](https://techbase.kde.org/Kirigami) page. This drew some, for lack of a better word, passionate people to verbally retaliate. Though it was only supposed to be a 10 minute lightning talk, the debate raged on among the two schools of thought of how TechBase docu should be written. All in good taste. The only thing which brought the discussion to an end was the bus for returning to Civitas leaving sharp at 8pm.

One thing which worked out nicely on this trip is the very late sunset in Spain around this time of the year. It is as bright as day even at around 9pm and the light only starts waning at around 930pm. This gave us plenty of time to head to the beach, which was about a 20 minute walk from the hostel.

Here, it struck me how much I loved the way of life here.

Unlike Madrid, Almeria is not a known as a tourist destination so most of the people living there were locals. In a span of about half an hour I watched how an evening unfolds in this city. As the sun started dipping below the horizion, families with kids, college couples, and high-school friends trickled from the beach to the boardwalk for dinner. There was plenty of variety on offer - from seafood to Italian cuisine.

One place caught my eye - a small cafe with Doner Kebab called 'Taj Mahal'. After a couple of days of eating nothing but bland sandwiches, Rahul and I were game for anything with a hint of spice of it. I tried ordering Doner Kebab using a mixture of broken Spanish and improvised sign language only to receive a reply in Hindi! It turned out that the owner of the restaurant was Pakistani and had migrated to Spain seven years ago. Rahul made a point to ask for more chilli - and the Doner kebabs we got were not lacking in spice. I had more chilli in one kebab than I would normally would have had in a week. At least it was a change from Spanish food, which I wasn't all that fond of.

The next day was similar to the first, only a lot more fun. I spent a lot amount of time interacting with the people from KDE India, who were the only people in my age group. I also got to know my GSoC mentor, Boudhayan Gupta. The talks for this day were as good as the ones yesterday and I got to learn about Neon Docker images, the story behind KDE's Slimbook laptop, and things to look forward to in C++17/20.

The talks were wrapped up with the Akademy Awards 2017.

There were still 3 hours of sunlight left after the conference and not being one to waste it, we headed straight for the beach. Boudhayan and I made a treacherous excursion out to a rocky pier covered with moss. My sandels were the only thing keeping me from slipping onto a bunch of sharply angled stones jutting out from the waves. Against my better judgement, I managed to reach the end of the pier only to see a couple of crabs take interest in the newcomers. With the tide rising and the sun setting, we couldn't afford to stay much longer so we headed back to the beach just as we came. Not long after, I couldn't help myself and headed into the water with enthusiasm I had only knew as a child. Probably more so for BaloneyGeek though, who headed in headfirst with his three-week-old Moto G5+ in his pocket (Spoiler: the phone was irrevocably damaged from half a minute of being immersed in saltwater). In the midst of this, we found a bunch of KDE folks hanging out on the beach with several boxes of pizza and bottles of beer. Free food!

Exhausted but exhilirated, we headed back to Civitas to end another very memorable day in Almeria.

With the talks completed, Akademy 2017 shifted to its second leg, which consisted more of BoFs ([Birds of a Feather](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birds_of_a_feather_(computing))) and workshops.
